Looking at this structure, we can notice the following highlights:
• This shows us the various nested layers of the model. The majority of the model
•
is labeled model, followed by lm_head.
• Inside the Phi3Model model, we see the embeddings matrix embed_tokens and its
•
dimensions. It has 32,064 tokens each with a vector size of 3,072.
• Skipping the dropout layer for now, we can see the next major component is
•
the stack of Transformer decoder layers. It contains 32 blocks of type Phi3Deco
derLayer.
• Each of these Transformer blocks includes an attention layer and a feedforward
•
neural network (also known as an mlp or multilevel perceptron). We’ll cover
these in more detail later in the chapter.
• Finally, we see the lm_head taking a vector of size 3,072 and outputting a vector
•
equivalent to the number of tokens the model knows. That output is the proba‐
bility score for each token that helps us select the output token.
Choosing a Single Token from the Probability Distribution (Sampling/
Decoding)
At the end of processing, the output of the model is a probability score for each token
in the vocabulary, as we saw previously in Figure 3-6. The method of choosing a sin‐
gle token from the probability distribution is called the decoding strategy. Figure 3-7
shows how this leads to picking the token “Dear” in one example.
The easiest decoding strategy would be to always pick the token with the highest
probability score. In practice, this doesn’t tend to lead to the best outputs for most
use cases. A better approach is to add some randomness and sometimes choose the
second or third highest probability token. The idea here is to basically sample from
the probability distribution based on the probability score, as the statisticians would
say.
What this means for the example in Figure 3-7 is that if the token “Dear” has a 40%
probability of being the next token, then it has a 40% chance of being picked (instead
of greedy search, which would pick it directly for having the highest score). So with
this method, all the other tokens have a chance of being picked according to their
score.
An Overview of Transformer Models 
| 
79