1 J. Alammar. “Machine learning research communication via illustrated and interactive web articles.” Beyond
Static Papers: Rethinking How We Share Scientific Understanding in ML. ICLR 2021 Workshop (2021).
in the learning process of LLMs.1 With our illustrative method of storytelling, we
want to take you on a journey to this exciting and potentially world-changing field.
Throughout the book, we make a clear distinction between representation and gener‐
ative language models. Representation models are LLMs that do not generate text but
are commonly used for task-specific use cases, like classification, whereas generation
models are LLMs that generate text, like GPT models. Although generative models
are typically the first thing that comes to mind when thinking about LLMs, there is
still much use for representation models. We are also loosely using the word “large”
in large language models and often elect to simply call them language models as size
descriptions are often rather arbitrary and not always indicative of capability.
Prerequisites
This book assumes that you have some experience programming in Python and are
familiar with the fundamentals of machine learning. The focus will be on building a
strong intuition rather than deriving mathematical equations. As such, illustrations
combined with hands-on examples will drive the examples and learning through this
book. This book assumes no prior knowledge of popular deep learning frameworks
such as PyTorch or TensorFlow nor any prior knowledge of generative modeling.
If you are not familiar with Python, a great place to start is Learn Python, where you
will find many tutorials on the basics of the language. To further ease the learning
process, we made all the code available on Google Colab, a platform where you can
run all of the code without the need to install anything locally.
Book Structure
The book is broadly divided into three parts. They are illustrated in Figure P-1 to give
you a full view of the book. Note that each chapter can be read independently, so feel
free to skim chapters you are already familiar with.
Part I: Understanding Language Models
In Part I of the book, we explore the inner workings of language models both small
and large. We start with an overview of the field and common techniques (see Chap‐
ter 1) before moving over to two central components of these models, tokenization
and embeddings (see Chapter 2). We finish this part of the book with an updated
and expanded version of Jay’s well-known Illustrated Transformer, which dives into
xii 
| 
Preface