1 Nelson F. Liu et al. “Lost in the middle: How language models use long contexts.” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.03172 (2023).
Hallucination
LLMs may generate incorrect information confidently, which is referred to as
hallucination. To reduce its impact, we can ask the LLM to only generate an
answer if it knows the answer. If it does not know the answer, it can respond with
“I don’t know.”
Order
Either begin or end your prompt with the instruction. Especially with long
prompts, information in the middle is often forgotten.1 LLMs tend to focus on
information either at the beginning of a prompt (primacy effect) or the end of a
prompt (recency effect).
Here, specificity is arguably the most important aspect. By restricting and specifying
what the model should generate, there is a smaller chance of having it generate
something not related to your use case. For instance, if we were to skip the instruc‐
tion “in two to three sentences” it might generate complete paragraphs. Like human
conversations, without any specific instructions or additional context, it is difficult to
derive what the task at hand actually is.
Advanced Prompt Engineering
On the surface, creating a good prompt might seem straightforward. Ask a specific
question, be accurate, add some examples, and you are done! However, prompting
can grow complex quite quickly and as a result is an often-underestimated compo‐
nent of leveraging LLMs.
Here, we will go through several advanced techniques for building up your prompts,
starting with the iterative workflow of building up complex prompts all the way to
using LLMs sequentially to get improved results. Eventually, we will even build up to
advanced reasoning techniques.
The Potential Complexity of a Prompt
As we explored in the intro to prompt engineering, a prompt generally consists of
multiple components. In our very first example, our prompt consisted of instruction,
data, and output indicators. As we mentioned before, no prompt is limited to just
these three components and you can build it up to be as complex as you want.
These advanced components can quickly make a prompt quite complex. Some com‐
mon components are:
Advanced Prompt Engineering 
| 
177