DATA
“
Jay and Maarten have 
continued their tradition 
of providing beautifully 
illustrated and insightful 
descriptions of complex 
topics. Their book is 
a valuable resource 
for anyone looking to 
understand the main 
techniques behind how 
large language models 
are built.”
—Andrew Ng
founder of DeepLearning.AI
“I can’t think of another book 
that is more important to 
read right now. On every 
single page, I learned 
something that is critical 
to success in this era of 
language models.”
—Josh Starmer,  StatQuest
Hands-On 
Large Language Models
linkedin.com/company/oreilly-media
youtube.com/oreillymedia 
AI has acquired startling new language capabilities in just 
the past few years. Driven by rapid advances in deep learning, 
language AI systems are able to write and understand text 
better than ever before. This trend is enabling new features, 
products, and entire industries. Through this book’s visually 
educational nature, readers will learn practical tools and 
concepts they need to use these capabilities today.
You’ll understand how to use pretrained large language 
models for use cases like copywriting and summarization; 
create semantic search systems that go beyond keyword 
matching; and use existing libraries and pretrained models 
for text classification, search, and clusterings.
This book also helps you:
•	 Understand the architecture of Transformer language 
models that excel at text generation and representation
•	 Build advanced LLM pipelines to cluster text documents 
and explore the topics they cover
•	 Build semantic search engines that go beyond keyword 
search, using methods like dense retrieval and rerankers
•	 Explore how generative models can be used, from prompt 
engineering all the way to retrieval-augmented generation
•	 Gain a deeper understanding of how to train LLMs 
and optimize them for specific applications using 
generative model fine-tuning, contrastive fine-tuning, 
and in-context learning
Jay Alammar is director and 
engineering fellow at Cohere.
Maarten Grootendorst is 
senior clinical data scientist at 
the Netherlands Comprehensive 
Cancer Organization (IKNL).
US $79.99	  CAN $99.99
ISBN: 978-1-098-15096-9