love the kangaroo! Big thanks to Kate Dullea for being so patient with us having to go
through hundreds of illustrations many times over. The timely early releases by Clare
Laylock helped us see our work grow which was a big motivator, thank you. Thanks
to Ashley Stussy and Charles Roumeliotis for the development in the final stages of
the book and everyone else at O’Reilly who contributed.
Thanks to our amazing crew of technical reviewers. Invaluable feedback was given
by Harm Buisman, Emir Muñoz, Luba Elliott, Guarav Chawla, Rafael V. Pierre, Luba
Elliott, Tarun Narayanan, Nikhil Buduma, and Patrick Harrison.
Jay
I’d love to extend my deepest gratitude to my family for their unwavering support
and inspiration. I would like to specifically acknowledge my parents, Abdullah and
Mishael, and my aunts, Hussah and Aljoharah.
I’m grateful to the friends, colleagues, and collaborators who helped me understand
and explain the tricky concepts covered in this book as well as to the Cohere folks
who cultivate a supporting learning and sharing environment. Thank you to Adrien
Morisot, Aidan Gomez, Andy Toulis, Anfal Alatawi, Arash Ahmadian, Bharat Venki‐
tesh, Edward Grefenstette, Ivan Zhang, Joao Araújo, Luis Serrano, Matthias Gallé,
Meor Amer, Nick Frosst, Patrick Lewis, Phil Blunsom, Sara Hooker, and Suhas Pai.
I couldn’t conceive of this project getting accomplished to the level it has without
the extraordinary talent and tireless effort of Maarten, my coauthor. Your ability
to repeatedly nail the technical details (from the pinned version of the nth import
dependency to the latest in LLM quantization) while weaving some of the world’s best
visual narratives is absolutely breathtaking.
Lastly, a tip of the hat to the incredible coffee shop scene of Riyadh, Saudi Arabia for
supplying me with caffeine and a good place to focus from dawn until midnight. It’s
where I read most of these papers and worked out my understanding (looking at you,
Elixir Bunn).
Maarten
I want to begin by expressing my heartfelt appreciation to my coauthor, Jay. Your
insights have made this not only possible but incredibly fulfilling. This journey has
been nothing short of amazing and collaborating with you has been an absolute joy.
I want to sincerely thank my wonderful colleagues at IKNL for their continued
support throughout this journey. A special mention goes to Harm—our Monday
morning coffee breaks discussing this book were a constant source of encouragement.
Thank you to my family and friends for their unwavering support, and to my parents
in particular. Pap, despite the challenges you faced, you always found a way to be
xviii 
| 
Preface