Then, we can use the generated output as input for the LLM to generate a sales pitch:
# Based on a name and slogan for a product, generate a sales pitch
sales_prompt = [
    {"role": "user", "content": f"Generate a very short sales pitch for the 
following product: '{product_description}'"}
]
outputs = pipe(sales_prompt)
sales_pitch = outputs[0]["generated_text"]
print(sales_pitch)
Introducing MindMeld Messenger - your ultimate communication partner! Unleash 
intelligent conversations with our innovative AI-powered messaging platform. 
With MindMeld Messenger, every response is thoughtful, personalized, and 
timely. Say goodbye to generic replies and hello to meaningful interactions. 
Elevate your communication game with MindMeld Messenger - where every message 
is a step toward smarter conversations. Try it now and experience the future 
of messaging!
Although we need two calls to the model, a major benefit is that we can give each call
different parameters. For instance, the number of tokens created was relatively small
for the name and slogan whereas the pitch can be much longer.
This can be used for a variety of use cases, including:
Response validation
Ask the LLM to double-check previously generated outputs.
Parallel prompts
Create multiple prompts in parallel and do a final pass to merge them. For
example, ask multiple LLMs to generate multiple recipes in parallel and use the
combined result to create a shopping list.
Writing stories
Leverage the LLM to write books or stories by breaking down the problem into
components. For example, by first writing a summary, developing characters, and
building the story beats before diving into creating the dialogue.
In the next chapter, we will automate this process and go beyond chaining LLMs.
We will chain other pieces of technology together, like memory, tool use, and more!
Before that, this idea of prompt chaining will be explored further in the following sec‐
tions, which describe more complex prompt chaining methods like self-consistency,
chain-of-thought, and tree-of-thought.
Reasoning with Generative Models
In the previous sections, we focused mostly on the modular component of prompts,
building them up through iteration. These advanced prompt engineering techniques,
184 
| 
Chapter 6: Prompt Engineering