5 Daniel Kahneman. Thinking, Fast and Slow. Macmillan (2011).
6 Jason Wei et al. “Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models.” Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 35 (2022): 24824–24837.
like prompt chaining, proved to be the first step toward enabling complex reasoning
with generative models.
Reasoning is a core component of human intelligence and is often compared to the
emergent behavior of LLMs that often resembles reasoning. We highlight “resemble”
as these models, at the time of writing, are generally considered to demonstrate this
behavior through memorization of training data and pattern matching.
The output that they showcase, however, can demonstrate complex behavior and
although it might not be “true” reasoning, they are still referred to as reasoning capa‐
bilities. In other words, we work together with the LLM through prompt engineering
so we can mimic reasoning processes in order to improve the output of the LLM.
To allow for this reasoning behavior, it is a good moment to step back and explore
what reasoning entails in human behavior. To simplify, our methods of reasoning can
be divided into system 1 and 2 thinking processes.
System 1 thinking represents an automatic, intuitive, and near-instantaneous pro‐
cess. It shares similarities with generative models that automatically generate tokens
without any self-reflective behavior. In contrast, system 2 thinking is a conscious,
slow, and logical process, akin to brainstorming and self-reflection.5
If we could give a generative model the ability to mimic a form of self-reflection, we
would essentially be emulating the system 2 way of thinking, which tends to produce
more thoughtful responses than system 1 thinking. In this section, we will explore
several techniques that attempt to mimic these kinds of thought processes of human
reasoners with the aim of improving the output of the model.
Chain-of-Thought: Think Before Answering
The first and major step toward complex reasoning in generative models was
through a method called chain-of-thought. Chain-of-thought aims to have the gen‐
erative model “think” first rather than answering the question directly without any
reasoning.6
As illustrated in Figure 6-15, it provides examples in a prompt that demonstrate
the reasoning the model should do before generating its response. These reasoning
processes are referred to as “thoughts.” This helps tremendously for tasks that involve
a higher degree of complexity, like mathematical questions. Adding this reasoning
step allows the model to distribute more compute over the reasoning process. Instead
Reasoning with Generative Models 
| 
185