Valid output
Even if we allow the model to generate structured output, it still has the capability
to freely generate its content. For instance, when a model is asked to output
either one of two choices, it should not come up with a third.
Ethics
Some open source generative models have no guardrails and will generate out‐
puts that do not consider safety or ethical considerations. For instance, use
cases might require the output to be free of profanity, personally identifiable
information (PII), bias, cultural stereotypes, etc.
Accuracy
Many use cases require the output to adhere to certain standards or performance.
The aim is to double-check whether the generated information is factually accu‐
rate, coherent, or free from hallucination.
Controlling the output of a generative model, as we explored with parameters like
top_p and temperature, is not an easy feat. These models require help to generate
consistent output conforming to certain guidelines.
Generally, there are three ways of controlling the output of a generative model:
Examples
Provide a number of examples of the expected output.
Grammar
Control the token selection process.
Fine-tuning
Tune a model on data that contains the expected output.
In this section, we will go through the first two methods. The third, fine-tuning a
model, is left for Chapter 12 where we will go in depth into fine-tuning methods.
Providing Examples
A simple and straightforward method to fix the output is to provide the generative
model with examples of what the output should look like. As we explored before,
few-shot learning is a helpful technique that guides the output of the generative
model. This method can be generalized to guide the structure of the output as well.
For example, let us consider an example where we want the generative model to
create a character profile for an RPG game. We start by using no examples:
# Zero-shot learning: Providing no examples
zeroshot_prompt = [
    {"role": "user", "content": "Create a character profile for an RPG game in 
JSON format."}
192 
| 
Chapter 6: Prompt Engineering