1 Shunyu Yao et al. “ReAct: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models.” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2210.03629 (2022).
In other words, agents that make use of LLMs can be powerful general problem solv‐
ers. Although the tools they use are important, the driving force of many agent-based
systems is the use of a framework called Reasoning and Acting (ReAct1).
The Driving Power Behind Agents: Step-by-step Reasoning
ReAct is a powerful framework that combines two important concepts in behavior:
reasoning and acting. LLMs are exceptionally powerful when it comes to reasoning as
we explored in detail in Chapter 5.
Acting is a bit of a different story. LLMs are not able to act like you and I do. To
give them the ability to act, we could tell an LLM that it can use certain tools, like
a weather forecasting API. However, since LLMs can only generate text, they would
need to be instructed to use specific queries to trigger the forecasting API.
ReAct merges these two concepts and allows reasoning to affect acting and actions
to affect reasoning. In practice, the framework consists of iteratively following these
three steps:
• Thought
•
• Action
•
• Observation
•
Illustrated in Figure 7-15, the LLM is asked to create a “thought” about the input
prompt. This is similar to asking the LLM what it thinks it should do next and
why. Then, based on the thought, an “action” is triggered. The action is generally
an external tool, like a calculator or a search engine. Finally, after the results of the
“action” are returned to the LLM it “observes” the output, which is often a summary
of whatever result it retrieved.
To illustrate with an example, imagine you are on holiday in the United States and
interested in buying a MacBook Pro. Not only do you want to know the price but you
need it converted to EUR as you live in Europe and are more comfortable with those
prices.
As illustrated in Figure 7-16, the agent will first search the web for current prices. It
might find one or more prices depending on the search engine. After retrieving the
price, it will use a calculator to convert USD to EUR assuming we know the exchange
rate.
Agents: Creating a System of LLMs 
| 
219