1 Jason Wei et al. “Emergent abilities of large language models.” arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.07682 (2022).
2 Alexey Dosovitskiy et al. “
An image is worth 16x16 words: Transformers for image recognition at scale.” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2010.11929 (2020).
We have seen all manner of emerging behaviors rising from LLMs, from generaliza‐
tion capabilities and reasoning to arithmetic and linguistics. As models grow larger
and smarter, so do their skill sets.1
The ability to receive and reason with multimodal input might further increase and
help emerge capabilities that were previously locked. In practice, language does not
solely live in a vacuum. As an example, your body language, facial expressions,
intonation, etc. are all methods of communication that enhance the spoken word.
The same thing applies to LLMs; if we can enable them to reason about multimodal
information, their capabilities might increase and we become able to deploy them to
solve new kinds of problems.
In this chapter, we will explore a number of different LLMs that have multimodal
capabilities and what that means for practical use cases. We will start by exploring
how images are converted to numerical representations using an adaptation of the
original Transformer technique. Then, we will show how LLMs can be extended to
include vision tasks using this Transformer.
Transformers for Vision
Throughout the chapters of this book, we have seen the success of using Transformer-
based models for a variety of language modeling tasks, from classification and
clustering to search and generative modeling. So it might not be surprising that
researchers have been looking at a way to generalize some of the Transformer’s
success to the field of computer vision.
The method they came up with is called the Vision Transformer (ViT), which has
been shown to do tremendously well on image recognition tasks compared to the
previously default convolutional neural networks (CNNs).2 Like the original Trans‐
former, ViT is used to transform unstructured data, an image, into representations
that can be used for a variety of tasks, like classification, as illustrated in Figure 9-2.
ViT relies on an important component of the Transformer architecture, namely the
encoder. As we saw in Chapter 1, the encoder is responsible for converting textual
input into numerical representations before being passed to the decoder. However,
before the encoder can perform its duties, the textual input needs to be tokenized
first, as is illustrated in Figure 9-3.
260 
| 
Chapter 9: Multimodal Large Language Models