To perform contrastive learning, we need two things. First, we need data that consti‐
tutes similar/dissimilar pairs. Second, we will need to define how the model defines
and optimizes similarity.
Creating an Embedding Model
There are many methods through which an embedding model can be created
but generally, we look toward contrastive learning. This is an important aspect
of many embedding models as the process allows it to efficiently learn semantic
representations.
However, this is not a free process. We will need to understand how to generate
contrastive examples, how to train the model, and how to properly evaluate it.
Generating Contrastive Examples
When pretraining your embedding model, you will often see data being used from
natural language inference (NLI) datasets. NLI refers to the task of investigating
whether, for a given premise, it entails the hypothesis (entailment), contradicts it
(contradiction), or neither (neutral).
For example, when the premise is “He is in the cinema watching Coco” and the
hypothesis “He is watching Frozen at home,” then these statements are contradictions.
In contrast, when the premise is “He is in the cinema watching Coco” and the
hypothesis “In the movie theater he is watching the Disney movie Coco,” then these
statements are considered entailment. This principle is illustrated in Figure 10-8.
Figure 10-8. We can leverage the structure of NLI datasets to generate negative examples
(contradiction) and positive examples (entailments) for contrastive learning.
If you look closely at entailment and contradiction, then they describe the extent to
which two inputs are similar to one another. As such, we can use NLI datasets to
generate negative examples (contradictions) and positive examples (entailments) for
contrastive learning.
The data that we are going to be using throughout creating and fine-tuning
embedding models is derived from the General Language Understanding Evaluation
296 
| 
Chapter 10: Creating Text Embedding Models