9 Nandan Thakur et al. “Augmented SBERT: Data augmentation method for improving bi-encoders for pairwise
sentence scoring tasks.” arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.08240 (2020).
Although a score of 0.85 is the highest we have seen thus far, the pretrained model
that we used for fine-tuning was already trained on the full MNLI dataset, whereas we
only used 50,000 examples. It might seem redundant but this example demonstrates
how to fine-tune a pretrained embedding model on your own data.
Instead of using a pretrained BERT model like 'bert-base-
uncased' or a possible out-of-domain model like 'all-mpnet-
base-v2', you can also perform masked language modeling on the
pretrained BERT model to first adapt it to your domain. Then, you
can use this fine-tuned BERT model as the base for training your
embedding model. This is a form of domain adaptation. In the next
chapter, we will apply masked language modeling on a pretrained
model.
Note that the main difficulty of training or fine-tuning your model is finding the
right data. With these models, we not only want to have very large datasets, but
the data in itself needs to be of high quality. Developing positive pairs is generally
straightforward but adding hard negative pairs significantly increases the difficulty of
creating quality data.
As always, restart your notebook to free up VRAM for the following examples.
Augmented SBERT
A disadvantage of training or fine-tuning these embedding models is that they often
require substantial training data. Many of these models are trained with more than a
billion sentence pairs. Extracting such a high number of sentence pairs for your use
case is generally not possible as in many cases, there are only a couple of thousand
labeled data points available.
Fortunately, there is a way to augment your data such that an embedding model
can be fine-tuned when there is only a little labeled data available. This procedure is
referred to as Augmented SBERT.9
In this procedure, we aim to augment the small amount of labeled data such that
they can be used for regular training. It makes use of the slow and more accurate
cross-encoder architecture (BERT) to augment and label a larger set of input pairs.
These newly labeled pairs are then used for fine-tuning a bi-encoder (SBERT).
As shown in Figure 10-12, Augmented SBERT involves the following steps:
Fine-Tuning an Embedding Model 
| 
311