10 Tianyu Gao, Xingcheng Yao, and Danqi Chen. “SimCSE: Simple contrastive learning of sentence embeddings.”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.08821 (2021).
11 Fredrik Carlsson et al. “Semantic re-tuning with Contrastive Tension.” International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2021. 2021.
12 Kexin Wang, Nils Reimers, and Iryna Gurevych. “TSDAE: Using Transformer-based Sequential Denoising
Auto-Encoder for unsupervised sentence embedding learning.” arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.06979 (2021).
13 Kexin Wang et al. “GPL: Generative Pseudo Labeling for unsupervised domain adaptation of dense retrieval.”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.07577 (2021).
Unsupervised Learning
To create an embedding model, we typically need labeled data. However, not all
real-world datasets come with a nice set of labels that we can use. We instead
look for techniques to train the model without any predetermined labels—unsuper‐
vised learning. Many approaches exist, like Simple Contrastive Learning of Sentence
Embeddings (SimCSE),10 Contrastive Tension (CT),11 Transformer-based Sequential
Denoising Auto-Encoder (TSDAE),12 and Generative Pseudo-Labeling (GPL).13
In this section, we will focus on TSDAE, as it has shown great performance on
unsupervised tasks as well as domain adaptation.
Transformer-Based Sequential Denoising Auto-Encoder
TSDAE is a very elegant approach to creating an embedding model with unsuper‐
vised learning. The method assumes that we have no labeled data at all and does not
require us to artificially create labels.
The underlying idea of TSDAE is that we add noise to the input sentence by remov‐
ing a certain percentage of words from it. This “damaged” sentence is put through an
encoder, with a pooling layer on top of it, to map it to a sentence embedding. From
this sentence embedding, a decoder tries to reconstruct the original sentence from the
“damaged” sentence but without the artificial noise. The main concept here is that
the more accurate the sentence embedding is, the more accurate the reconstructed
sentence will be.
This method is very similar to masked language modeling, where we try to recon‐
struct and learn certain masked words. Here, instead of reconstructing masked
words, we try to reconstruct the entire sentence.
After training, we can use the encoder to generate embeddings from text since the
decoder is only used for judging whether the embeddings can accurately reconstruct
the original sentence (Figure 10-13).
316 
| 
Chapter 10: Creating Text Embedding Models