8 Fred Jelinek et al. “Perplexity—a measure of the difficulty of speech recognition tasks.” The Journal of the
Acoustical Society of America 62.S1 (1977): S63.
9 Chin-Yew Lin. “ROUGE: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries.” Text Summarization Branches
Out, 74–81. 2004.
10 Kishore Papineni, et al. “Bleu: a method for automatic evaluation of machine translation.” Proceedings of the
40th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. 2002.
11 Tianyi Zhang et al. “BERTscore: Evaluating text generation with BERT.” arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.09675
(2019).
In this section, we will explore a few common evaluation methods, but we want to
emphasize the current lack of golden standards. No one metric is perfect for all use
cases.
Word-Level Metrics
One common metrics category for comparing generative models is word-level evalu‐
ation. These classic techniques compare a reference dataset with the generated tokens
on a token(set) level. Common word-level metrics include perplexity,8 ROUGE,9
BLEU,10 and BERTScore.11
Of note is perplexity, which measures how well a language model predicts a text.
Given input text, the model predicts how likely the next token is. With perplexity, we
assume a model performs better if it gives the next token a high probability. In other
words, the models should not be “perplexed” when presented with a well-written
document.
As illustrated in Figure 12-20, when presented with the input “When a measure
becomes a,” the model is asked how probable the word “target” is as the next word.
Figure 12-20. Next-word prediction is a central feature of many LLMs.
Although perplexity, and other word-level metrics, are useful metrics to understand
the confidence of the model, they are not a perfect measure. They do not account for
consistency, fluency, creativity, or even correctness of the generated text.
Benchmarks
A common method for evaluating generative models on language generation and
understanding tasks is on well-known and public benchmarks, such as MMLU,12
GLUE,13 TruthfulQA,14 GSM8k,15 and HellaSwag.16 These benchmarks give us
374 
| 
Chapter 12: Fine-Tuning Generation Models