18 Lianmin Zheng et al. “Judging LLM-as-a-judge with MT-Bench and Chatbot Arena.” Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 36 (2024).
Leaderboards
With so many different benchmarks, it is hard to choose which benchmark best suits
your model. Whenever a model is released, you will often see it evaluated on several
benchmarks to showcase how it performs across the board.
As such, leaderboards were developed containing multiple benchmarks. A common
leaderboard is the Open LLM Leaderboard, which, at the time of writing, includes six
benchmarks, including HellaSwag, MMLU, TruthfulQA, and GSM8k. Models that top
the leaderboard, assuming they were not overfitted on the data, are generally regar‐
ded as the “best” model. However, since these leaderboards often contain publicly
available benchmarks, there is a risk of overfitting on the leaderboard.
Automated Evaluation
Part of evaluating a generative output is the quality of its text. For instance, even if
two models were to give the same correct answer to a question, the way they derived
that answer might be different. It is often not just about the final answer but also the
construction of it. Similarly, although two summaries might be similar, one could be
significantly shorter than another, which is often important for a good summary.
To evaluate the quality of the generated text above the correctness of the final answer,
LLM-as-a-judge was introduced.18 In essence, a separate LLM is asked to judge the
quality of the LLM to be evaluated. An interesting variant of this method is pairwise
comparison. Two different LLMs will generate an answer to a question and a third
LLM will be the judge to declare which is better.
As a result, this methodology allows for automated evaluation of open-ended ques‐
tions. A major advantage is that as LLMs improve, so do their capabilities to judge the
quality of output. In other words, this evaluation methodology grows with the field.
Human Evaluation
Although benchmarks are important, the gold standard of evaluation is gener‐
ally considered to be human evaluation. Even if an LLM scores well on broad
benchmarks, it still might not score well on domain-specific tasks. Moreover, bench‐
marks do not fully capture human preference and all methods discussed before are
merely proxies for that.
A great example of a human-based evaluation technique is the Chatbot Arena.19
When you go to this leaderboard you are shown two (anonymous) LLMs you can
interact with. Any question or prompt you ask will be sent to both models and you
376 
| 
Chapter 12: Fine-Tuning Generation Models