19 Wei-Lin Chiang et al. “Chatbot Arena: An open platform for evaluating LLMs by human preference.” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.04132 (2024).
20 Mafilyn Strathern. “‘Improving ratings’: audit in the British University system.” European Review 5.3 (1997):
305–321.
will receive their output. Then, you can decide which output you prefer. This process
allows for the community to vote on which models they prefer without knowing
which ones are presented. Only after you vote do you see which model generated
which text.
At the time of writing, this method has generated over 800,000+ human votes that
were used to compute a leaderboard. These votes are used to calculate the relative
skill level of LLMs based on their win rates. For instance, if a low-ranked LLM beats a
high-ranked LLM, its ranking changes significantly. In chess, this is referred to as the
Elo rating system.
This methodology therefore uses crowdsourced votes, which helps us understand the
quality of the LLM. However, it is still the aggregated opinion of a wide variety of
users, which might not relate to your use case.
As a result, there is no one perfect method of evaluating LLMs. All mentioned
methodologies and benchmarks provide an important, although limited evaluation
perspective. Our advice is to evaluate your LLM based on the intended use case. For
coding, HumanEval would be more logical than GSM8k.
But most importantly, we believe that you are the best evaluator. Human evaluation
remains the gold standard because it is up to you to decide whether the LLM works
for your intended use case. As with the examples in this chapter, we highly advise
that you also try these models and perhaps develop some questions yourself. For
example, the authors of this book are Arabic (Jay Alammar) and Dutch (Maarten
Grootendorst), and we often ask questions in our native language when approached
with new models.
One final note on this topic is a quote we hold dear:
When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure.
—Goodhart’s Law20
In the context of LLMs, when using a specific benchmark, we tend to optimize for
that benchmark regardless of the consequences. For instance, if we focus purely on
optimizing for generating grammatically correct sentences, the model could learn to
only output one sentence: “This is a sentence.” It is grammatically correct but tells you
nothing about its language understanding capabilities. Thus, the model may excel at a
specific benchmark but potentially at the expense of other useful capabilities.
Evaluating Generative Models 
| 
377