7 Alec Radford et al. “Improving language understanding by generative pre-training”, (2018).
8 Alec Radford et al. “Language models are unsupervised multitask learners.” OpenAI Blog 1.8 (2019): 9.
9 Tom Brown et al. “Language models are few-shot learners.” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
33 (2020): 1877–1901.
architecture. This also makes BERT models feature extraction machines without the
need to fine-tune them on a specific task.
Encoder-only models, like BERT, will be used in many parts of the book. For years,
they have been and are still used for common tasks, including classification tasks (see
Chapter 4), clustering tasks (see Chapter 5), and semantic search (see Chapter 8).
Throughout the book, we will refer to encoder-only models as representation models
to differentiate them from decoder-only, which we refer to as generative models.
Note that the main distinction does not lie between the underlying architecture and
the way these models work. Representation models mainly focus on representing
language, for instance, by creating embeddings, and typically do not generate text. In
contrast, generative models focus primarily on generating text and typically are not
trained to generate embeddings.
The distinction between representation and generative models and components will
also be shown in most images. Representation models are teal with a small vector
icon (to indicate its focus on vectors and embeddings) whilst generative models are
pink with a small chat icon (to indicate its generative capabilities).
Generative Models: Decoder-Only Models
Similar to the encoder-only architecture of BERT, a decoder-only architecture was
proposed in 2018 to target generative tasks.7 This architecture was called a Generative
Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) for its generative capabilities (it’s now known as
GPT-1 to distinguish it from later versions). As shown in Figure 1-24, it stacks
decoder blocks similar to the encoder-stacked architecture of BERT.
GPT-1 was trained on a corpus of 7,000 books and Common Crawl, a large dataset of
web pages. The resulting model consisted of 117 million parameters. Each parameter
is a numerical value that represents the model’s understanding of language.
If everything remains the same, we expect more parameters to greatly influence the
capabilities and performance of language models. Keeping this in mind, we saw larger
and larger models being released at a steady pace. As illustrated in Figure 1-25, GPT-2
had 1.5 billion parameters8 and GPT-3 used 175 billion parameters9 quickly followed.
20 
| 
Chapter 1: An Introduction to Large Language Models