The Moving Definition of a “Large Language Model”
In our travels through the recent history of Language AI, we observed that primarily
generative decoder-only (Transformer) models are commonly referred to as large
language models. Especially if they are considered to be “large.” In practice, this seems
like a rather constrained description!
What if we create a model with the same capabilities as GPT-3 but 10 times smaller?
Would such a model fall outside the “large” language model categorization?
Similarly, what if we released a model as big as GPT-4 that can perform accurate
text classification but does not have any generative capabilities? Would it still qualify
as a large “language model” if its primary function is not language generation, even
though it still represents text?
The problem with these kinds of definitions is that we exclude capable models. What
name we give one model or the other does not change how it behaves.
Since the definition of the term “large language model” tends to evolve with the
release of new models, we want to be explicit in what it means for this book. “Large”
is arbitrary and what might be considered a large model today could be small tomor‐
row. There are currently many names for the same thing and to us, “large language
models” are also models that do not generate text and can be run on consumer
hardware.
As such, aside from covering generative models, this book will also cover models with
fewer than 1 billion parameters that do not generate text. We will explore how other
models, such as embedding models, representation models, and even bag-of-words
can be used to empower LLMs.
The Training Paradigm of Large Language Models
Traditional machine learning generally involves training a model for a specific task,
like classification. As shown in Figure 1-29, we consider this to be a one-step process.
Figure 1-29. Traditional machine learning involves a single step: training a model for a
specific target task, like classification or regression.
The Training Paradigm of Large Language Models 
| 
25