Responsible LLM Development and Usage
The impact of LLMs has been and likely continues to be significant due to their wide‐
spread adoption. As we explore the incredible capabilities of LLMs it is important to
keep their societal and ethical implications in mind. Several key points to consider:
Bias and fairness
LLMs are trained on large amounts of data that might contain biases. LLMs
might learn from these biases, start to reproduce them, and potentially amplify
them. Since the data on which LLMs are trained are seldom shared, it remains
unclear what potential biases they might contain unless you try them out.
Transparency and accountability
Due to LLMs’ incredible capabilities, it is not always clear when you are talking
with a human or an LLM. As such, the usage of LLMs when interacting with
humans can have unintended consequences when there is no human in the
loop. For instance, LLM-based applications used in the medical field might be
regulated as medical devices since they could affect a patient’s well-being.
Generating harmful content
An LLM does not necessarily generate ground-truth content and might confi‐
dently output incorrect text. Moreover, they can be used to generate fake news,
articles, and other misleading sources of information.
Intellectual property
Is the output of an LLM your intellectual property or that of the LLM’s creator?
When the output is similar to a phrase in the training data, does the intellectual
property belong to the author of that phrase? Without access to the training data
it remains unclear when copyrighted material is being used by the LLM.
Regulation
Due to the enormous impact of LLMs, governments are starting to regulate
commercial applications. An example is the European AI Act, which regulates
the development and deployment of foundation models including LLMs.
As you develop and use LLMs, we want to stress the importance of ethical considera‐
tions and urge you to learn more about the safe and responsible use of LLMs and AI
systems in general.
Limited Resources Are All You Need
The compute resources that we have referenced several times thus far generally relate
to the GPU(s) you have available on your system. A powerful GPU (graphics card)
will make both training and using LLMs much more efficient and faster.
28 
| 
Chapter 1: An Introduction to Large Language Models