15 The models were trained for 3,311,616 GPU hours, which refers to the amount of time it takes to train a
model on a GPU, multiplied by the number of GPUs available.
In choosing a GPU, an important component is the amount of VRAM (video
random-access memory) you have available. This refers to the amount of memory
you have available on your GPU. In practice, the more VRAM you have the better.
The reason for this is that some models simply cannot be used at all if you do not
have sufficient VRAM.
Because training and fine-tuning LLMs can be an expensive process, GPU-wise, those
without a powerful GPU have often been referred to as the GPU-poor. This illustrates
the battle for computing resources to train these huge models. To create the Llama 2
family of models, for example, Meta used A100-80 GB GPUs. Assuming renting such
a GPU would cost $1.50/hr, the total costs of creating these models would exceed
$5,000,000!15
Unfortunately, there is no single rule to determine exactly how much VRAM you
need for a specific model. It depends on the model’s architecture and size, compres‐
sion technique, context size, backend for running the model, etc.
This book is for the GPU-poor! We will use models that users can run without the
most expensive GPU(s) available or a big budget. To do so, we will make all the code
available in Google Colab instances. At the time of writing, a free instance of Google
Colab will net you a T4 GPU with 16 GB VRAM, which is the minimum amount of
VRAM that we suggest.
Interfacing with Large Language Models
Interfacing with LLMs is a vital component of not only using them but also develop‐
ing an understanding of their inner workings. Due to the many developments in
the field, there has been an abundance of techniques, methods, and packages for
communicating with LLMs. Throughout the book, we intend to explore the most
common techniques for doing so, including using both proprietary (closed source)
and publicly available open models.
Proprietary, Private Models
Closed source LLMs are models that do not have their weights and architecture
shared with the public. They are developed by specific organizations with their
underlying code being kept secret. Examples of such models include OpenAI’s GPT-4
and Anthropic’s Claude. These proprietary models are generally backed by significant
commercial support and have been developed and integrated within their services.
Interfacing with Large Language Models 
| 
29