You can access these models through an interface that communicates with the LLM,
called an API (application programming interface), as illustrated in Figure 1-31. For
instance, to use ChatGPT in Python you can use OpenAI’s package to interface with
the service without directly accessing it.
Figure 1-31. Closed source LLMs are accessed by an interface (API). As a result, details
of the LLM itself, including its code and architecture are not shared with the user.
A huge benefit of proprietary models is that the user does not need to have a strong
GPU to use the LLM. The provider takes care of hosting and running the model and
generally has more computing available. There is no expertise necessary concerning
hosting and using the model, which lowers the barrier to entry significantly. More‐
over, these models tend to be more performant than their open source counterparts
due to the significant investment from these organizations.
A downside to this is that it can be a costly service. The provider manages the risk
and costs of hosting the LLM, which often translates to a paid service. Moreover,
since there is no direct access to the model, there is no method to fine-tune it
yourself. Lastly, your data is shared with the provider, which is not desirable in many
common use cases, such as sharing patient data.
Open Models
Open LLMs are models that share their weights and architecture with the public to
use. They are still developed by specific organizations but often share their code for
creating or running the model locally—with varying levels of licensing that may or
may not allow commercial usage of the model. Cohere’s Command R, the Mistral
models, Microsoft’s Phi, and Meta’s Llama models are all examples of open models.
There are ongoing discussions as to what truly represents an open
source model. For instance, some publicly shared models have a
permissive commercial license, which means that the model cannot
be used for commercial purposes. For many, this is not the true
definition of open source, which states that using these models
should not have any restrictions. Similarly, the data on which a
model is trained as well as its source code are seldom shared.
30 
| 
Chapter 1: An Introduction to Large Language Models