You can download these models and use them on your device as long as you have a
powerful GPU that can handle these kinds of models, as shown in Figure 1-32.
Figure 1-32. Open source LLMs are directly by the user. As a result, details of the LLM
itself including its code and architecture are shared with the user.
A major advantage of these local models is that you, the user, have complete control
over the model. You can use the model without depending on the API connection,
fine-tune it, and run sensitive data through it. You are not dependent on any service
and have complete transparency of the processes that lead to the output of the model.
This benefit is enhanced by the large communities that enable these processes, such
as Hugging Face, demonstrating the possibilities of collaborative efforts.
A downside is that you need powerful hardware to run these models and even more
when training or fine-tuning them. Moreover, it requires specific knowledge to set up
and use these models (which we will cover throughout this book).
We generally prefer using open source models wherever we can. The freedom this
gives to play around with options, explore the inner workings, and use the model
locally arguably provides more benefits than using proprietary LLMs.
Open Source Frameworks
Compared to closed source LLMs, open source LLMs require you to use certain pack‐
ages to run them. In 2023, many different packages and frameworks were released
that, each in their own way, interact with and make use of LLMs. Wading through
hundreds upon hundreds of potentially worthwhile frameworks is not the most
enjoyable experience.
As a result, you might even miss your favorite framework in this book!
Instead of attempting to cover every LLM framework in existence (there are too
many, and they continue to grow in number), we aim to provide you with a solid
foundation for leveraging LLMs. The idea is that after reading this book, you can
easily pick up most other frameworks as they all work in a very similar manner.
The intuition that we attempt to realize is an important component of this. If you
have an intuitive understanding of not only LLMs but also using them in practice
with common frameworks, branching out to others should be a straightforward task.
Interfacing with Large Language Models 
| 
31