16 Marah Abdin et al. “Phi-3 technical report: A highly capable language model locally on your phone.” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2404.14219 (2024).
More specifically, we focus on backend packages. These are packages without a
GUI (graphical user interface) that are created for efficiently loading and running
any LLM on your device, such as llama.cpp, LangChain, and the core of many
frameworks, Hugging Face Transformers.
We will mostly cover frameworks for interacting with large lan‐
guage models through code. Although it helps you learn the
fundamentals of these frameworks, sometimes you just want a
ChatGPT-like interface with a local LLM. Fortunately, there are
many incredible frameworks that allow for this. A few examples
include text-generation-webui, KoboldCpp, and LM Studio.
Generating Your First Text
An important component of using language models is selecting them. The main
source for finding and downloading LLMs is the Hugging Face Hub. Hugging Face
is the organization behind the well-known Transformers package, which for years
has driven the development of language models in general. As the name implies, the
package was built on top of the transformers framework that we discussed in “
A
Recent History of Language AI” on page 5.
At the time of writing, you will find more than 800,000 models on Hugging Face’s
platform for many different purposes, from LLMs and computer vision models to
models that work with audio and tabular data. Here, you can find almost any open
source LLM.
Although we will explore all kinds of models throughout this book, let’s start our first
lines of code with a generative model. The main generative model we use throughout
the book is Phi-3-mini, which is a relatively small (3.8 billion parameters) but quite
performant model.16 Due to its small size, the model can be run on devices with less
than 8 GB of VRAM. If you perform quantization, a type of compression that we will
further discuss in Chapters 7 and 12, you can use even less than 6 GB of VRAM.
Moreover, the model is licensed under the MIT license, which allows the model to be
used for commercial purposes without constraints!
Keep in mind that new and improved LLMs are frequently released. To ensure this
book remains current, most examples are designed to work with any LLM. We’ll also
highlight different models in the repository associated with this book for you to try
out.
Let’s get started! When you use an LLM, two models are loaded:
32 
| 
Chapter 1: An Introduction to Large Language Models