Token Embeddings
Now that we understand tokenization, we have solved one part of the problem of
representing language to a language model. In this sense, language is a sequence of
tokens. And if we train a good-enough model on a large-enough set of tokens, it
starts to capture the complex patterns that appear in its training dataset:
• If the training data contains a lot of English text, that pattern reveals itself as a
•
model capable of representing and generating the English language.
• If the training data contains factual information (Wikipedia, for example), the
•
model would have the ability to generate some factual information (see the
following note).
The next piece of the puzzle is finding the best numerical representation for these
tokens that the model can use to calculate and properly model the patterns in the
text. These patterns reveal themselves to us as a model’s coherence in a specific
language, or capability to code, or any of the growing list of capabilities we expect
from language models.
As we’ve seen in Chapter 1, that is what embeddings are. They are the numeric
representation space utilized to capture the meanings and patterns in language.
Oops: Achieving a good threshold of language coherence and
better-than-average factual generation, however, starts to present a
new problem. Some users start to trust the model’s fact generation
ability (e.g., at the beginning of 2023 some language models were
being dubbed “Google killers”). It didn’t take long for advanced
users to recognize that generation models alone aren’t reliable
search engines. This led to the rise of retrieval-augmented genera‐
tion (RAG), which combines search and LLMs. We cover RAG in
more detail in Chapter 8.
A Language Model Holds Embeddings for the Vocabulary of Its
Tokenizer
After a tokenizer is initialized and trained, it is then used in the training process of its
associated language model. This is why a pretrained language model is linked with its
tokenizer and can’t use a different tokenizer without training.
The language model holds an embedding vector for each token in the tokenizer’s
vocabulary, as we can see in Figure 2-7. When we download a pretrained language
model, a portion of the model is this embeddings matrix holding all of these vectors.
Token Embeddings 
| 
57