Summary
In this chapter, we have covered LLM tokens, tokenizers, and useful approaches to
using token embeddings. This prepares us to start looking closer at language models
in the next chapter, and also opens the door to learn about how embeddings are used
beyond language models.
We explored how tokenizers are the first step in processing input to an LLM, trans‐
forming raw textual input into token IDs. Common tokenization schemes include
breaking text down into words, subword tokens, characters, or bytes, depending on
the specific requirements of a given application.
A tour of real-world pretrained tokenizers (from BERT to GPT-2, GPT-4, and other
models) showed us areas where some tokenizers are better (e.g., preserving informa‐
tion like capitalization, newlines, or tokens in other languages) and other areas where
tokenizers are just different from each other (e.g., how they break down certain
words).
Three of the major tokenizer design decisions are the tokenizer algorithm (e.g.,
BPE, WordPiece, SentencePiece), tokenization parameters (including vocabulary size,
special tokens, capitalization, treatment of capitalization and different languages), and
the dataset the tokenizer is trained on.
Language models are also creators of high-quality contextualized token embeddings
that improve on raw static embeddings. Those contextualized token embeddings
are what’s used for tasks including named-entity recognition (NER), extractive text
summarization, and text classification. In addition to producing token embeddings,
language models can produce text embeddings that cover entire sentences or even
documents. This empowers plenty of applications that will be shown in Part II of this
book covering language model applications
Before LLMs, word embedding methods like word2vec, GloVe, and fastText were
popular. In language processing, this has largely been replaced with contextualized
word embeddings produced by language models. The word2vec algorithm relies on
two main ideas: skip-gram and negative sampling. It also uses contrastive training
similar to the type we’ll see in Chapter 10.
Embeddings are useful for creating and improving recommender systems as we
discussed in the music recommender we built from curated song playlists.
In the next chapter, we will take a deep dive into the process after tokenization: how
does an LLM process these tokens and generate text? We will look at some of the
main intuitions of how LLMs that use the Transformer architecture work.
Summary 
| 
71