This gives us a more accurate picture of the model as it is simply predicting the next
token based on an input prompt. Software around the neural network basically runs
it in a loop to sequentially expand the generated text until completion.
There’s a specific word used in machine learning to describe models that consume
their earlier predictions to make later predictions (e.g., the model’s first generated
token is used to generate the second token). They’re called autoregressive models.
That is why you’ll hear text generation LLMs being called autoregressive models. This
is often used to differentiate text generation models from text representation models
like BERT, which are not autoregressive.
This autoregressive, token-by-token generation is what happens under the hood
when we generate text with the LLM like we see here:
prompt = "Write an email apologizing to Sarah for the tragic gardening mishap. 
Explain how it happened."
output = generator(prompt)
print(output[0]['generated_text'])
This generates the text:
Solution 1:
Subject: My Sincere Apologies for the Gardening Mishap
Dear Sarah,
I hope this message finds you well. I am writing to express my deep
We can see the model begin to write the email starting with the subject. It stopped
abruptly because it reached the token limit we established by setting max_new_tokens
to 50 tokens. If we increase that, it will continue until concluding the email.
The Components of the Forward Pass
In addition to the loop, two key internal components are the tokenizer and the
language modeling head (LM head). Figure 3-4 shows where these components lie in
the system. We saw in the previous chapter how tokenizers break down the text into a
sequence of token IDs that then become the input to the model.
The tokenizer is followed by the neural network: a stack of Transformer blocks that
do all of the processing. That stack is then followed by the LM head, which translates
the output of the stack into probability scores for what the most likely next token is.
76 
| 
Chapter 3: Looking Inside Large Language Models